FILE: AI as Co-Leader_effects of Human Consideration and AI Structure Behaviours on Leadership Effectiveness and Neural Activation.pdf
TEXT: AI as Co-Leader: Effects of Human Consideration and AI Structure Behaviors on Leadership Effectiveness and Neural Activation Xiaojun Lai and Pei-Luen Patrick Rau Department of Industrial Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China ABSTRACT With rapid technological advancements, AI has emerged as a potential performer of some leader ship functions, supplementing or even substituting certain human leadership. The collaborative leadership dynamics between humans and AI remain underexplored. This study investigated the effects of human consideration (high versus low) and AI structure (high versus low) behaviors on task performance, subjective experiences, and neural activation in a humanAI co-lead scenario. A total of 80 participants engaged in quality inspection tasks that were co-led by human and AI leaders, with 20 participants randomly allocated to each behavior combination. The results revealed that high AI structure was associated with increased job-related satisfaction, employee engagement, and leader trust, while low AI structure slightly facilitated task completion speed (about 6.80%). High human consideration increased the trust in and satisfaction with the human leader. Overall, the combination of high consideration in the human leader and high structure in the AI leader enhanced leadership effectiveness and diversification of work methods (with 30% of participants choosing inspection methods other than AI suggestions). Low-structure AI leader behavior led to increased neural activation during the human-leading process in the prefrontal cortex, which was associated with increased attention, motivation, and semantic processing. KEYWORDS AI; leadership; initiating structure and consideration; humanAI collaboration; neuroleadership 1. Introduction As the capabi

FILE: Analysing the influence of organisational culture and leadership styles on the implementation of lean manufacturing..pdf
TEXT: Analysing the influence of organisational culture and leadership styles on the implementation of lean manufacturing Guilherme Luz Tortorellaa,b, Diego Fettermanna , Flavio S. Fogliattoc, Maneesh Kumard and Daniel Jurburge aUniversidade Federal de Santa Catarina, Florianopolis, Brazil; bThe University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia; cUniversidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil; dCardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom; eUniversidad de Montevideo, Montevideo, Uruguay ABSTRACT This paper aims at identifying the combination of organisational culture profiles and leadership styles that best support companies implementing lean manufacturing practices. For that, 225 leaders from manufacturing companies at various stages of lean implementation were surveyed. The analytical approach clustered respondents and their respective firms according to prevailing organisational cul- ture, leadership style and level of implementation of lean practices, testing for frequency differences among clusters. This study states that organisational culture profiles are related to leadership styles and lean manufacturing implementation level, suggesting different-from-expected effects of this rela- tionship on lean manufacturing implementation. The study bridges a gap in the literature by exploring how the association between organisational culture and leadership styles occurs in companies that are adopting lean practices. ARTICLE HISTORY Received 13 January 2020 Accepted 18 July 2020 KEYWORDS Lean manufacturing; leadership; organisational culture; multivariate data analysis 1. Introduction Effective implementation of lean manufacturing (LM) depends upon people, both leaders and followers, regardless of the kind of organisation in which it takes place (Sawhney and Chason

FILE: Are young leaders more sensitive to contextual influences  A lifespan perspective on organizational antecedents of transfo.pdf
TEXT: Nordic Psychology ISSN: 1901-2276 (Print) 1904-0016 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/rnpy20 Are young leaders more sensitive to contextual inuences? A lifespan perspective on organizational antecedents of transformational leadership Susanne Tafvelin, Hanna Irehill & Robert Lundmark To cite this article: Susanne Tafvelin, Hanna Irehill & Robert Lundmark (2025) Are young leaders more sensitive to contextual inuences? A lifespan perspective on organizational antecedents of transformational leadership, Nordic Psychology, 77:2, 95-111, DOI: 10.1080/19012276.2023.2277116 To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/19012276.2023.2277116 2023 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group Published online: 14 Nov 2023. Submit your article to this journal Article views: 1938 View related articles View Crossmark data Citing articles: 2 View citing articles Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=rnpy20 Are young leaders more sensitive to contextual inuences? A lifespan perspective on organizational antecedents of transformational leadership SUSANNE TAFVELIN , HANNA IREHILL & ROBERT LUNDMARK Corresponding address: Susanne Tafvelin, Department of Psychology, Ume University, Ume 901 87, Sweden. Email: susanne.tafvelin@umu.se Abstract While the role of the organizational context in enabling leadership behaviours has attracted increasing research attention, the role of leaders age in this dynamic has been overlooked. Using transformational leadership theory (Bass, 1985) and Ocs framework of context (2018), we examine how aspects of the task, social, physical, and temporal context shape leadership behaviour from a lifespan perspective. A ran

FILE: Autonomy_support leadership.pdf
TEXT: Vol:.(1234567890) Motivation and Emotion (2018) 42:706724 https://doi.org/10.1007/s11031-018-9698-y 1 3 ORIGINAL PAPER Leader autonomy support intheworkplace: Ameta-analytic review GavinR.Slemp1 MargaretL.Kern1 KentJ.Patrick1 RichardM.Ryan2,3 Published online: 17 May 2018 The Author(s) 2018 Abstract Leader autonomy support (LAS) refers to a cluster of supervisory behaviors that are theorized to facilitate self-determined motivation in employees, potentially enabling well-being and performance. We report the results of a meta-analysis of per- ceived LAS in work settings, drawing from a database of 754 correlations across 72 studies (83 unique samples, N=32,870). Results showed LAS correlated strongly and positively with autonomous work motivation, and was unrelated to controlled work motivation. Correlations became increasingly positive with themore internalized forms of work motivation described by self-determination theory. LAS waspositively associated with basic needs, well-being, and positive work behaviors, and wasnegatively associated with distress. Correlations were not moderated by the source of LAS, country of the sample, publication status, or the operationalization of autonomy support. In addition, a meta-analytic path analysis supported moti- vational processes that underlie LAS and its consequences in workplaces. Overall, our findings lend support for autonomy support as a leadership approach thatis consistent withself-determination and optimal functioning in work settings. Keywords Autonomy support Leadership Motivation Meta-analysis Self-determination theory Introduction Since the industrial revolution, there has been prevalent interest in how leaders can facilitate and sustain motivation and optimal functioning in employees. Arising from various leadershi

FILE: Being in Control May Make You Lose Control The Role of Self-Regulation in Unethical Leadership Behavior.pdf
TEXT: Being in Control May Make You Lose Control: The Role of Self-Regulation in Unethical Leadership Behavior Anne Joosten Marius van Dijke Alain Van Hiel David De Cremer Received: 14 May 2012 / Accepted: 16 March 2013 / Published online: 25 March 2013  Springer Science+Business Media Dordrecht 2013 Abstract In the present article, we argue that the constant pressure that leaders face may limit the willpower required to behave according to ethical norms and standards and may therefore lead to unethical behavior. Drawing upon the ego depletion and moral self-regulation literatures, we examined whether self-regulatory depletion that is contingent upon the moral identity of leaders may promote unethical lead- ership behavior. A laboratory experiment and a multisource eld study revealed that regulatory resource depletion pro- motes unethical leader behaviors among leaders who are low in moral identity. No such effect was found among leaders with a high moral identity. This study extends our knowledge on why organizational leaders do not always conform to organizational goals. Specically, we argue that the hectic and fragmented workdays of leaders may increase the like- lihood that they violate ethical norms. This highlights the necessity to carefully schedule tasks that may have ethical implications. Similarly, organizations should be aware that overloading their managers with work may increase the likelihood of their leaders transgressing ethical norms. Keywords Unethical leadership  Ego depletion  Moral identity One critical challenge that organizational leaders face is to remain focused on the display of ethical behavior during the course of their fragmented, hectic, and disorderly work days. In fact, the many ethical failures within organizations that have emerged in the 

FILE: Digital transformation leadership competencies A contingency approach .pdf
TEXT: International Journal of Information Management 75 (2024) 102734 Available online 14 December 2023 0268-4012/ 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Research article Digital transformation leadership competencies: A contingency approach Sune Dueholm Mller a,*, Henrike Konzag b, Jeppe Agger Nielsen c, Hafds Bergsdottir Sandholt b a Department of Informatics, University of Oslo, Gaustadalle`en 23B, N-0373 Oslo, Norway b Department of Management, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark c Department of Politics and Society, Aalborg University, Aalborg, Denmark A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Digital transformation Leadership Competencies Contingency A B S T R A C T Practitioners and researchers are increasingly engaged and interested in digital transformation leadership. However, the existing literature is fragmented and we lack knowledge of the competencies required by business leaders to facilitate digital transformation. In response, we rely on a literature study and draw inspiration from the Competing Values Framework to identify digital transformation leadership competencies. We theorize four archetypical competency portfolios, which are labeled according to the types of leaders who personify the constituent competencies: the challenger, the bricoleur, the organizer, and the competitor. We draw inspiration from the Competing Values Framework in advancing a contingency perspective on archetypical these portfolios. By theorizing competency portfolios, we contribute new insights into the role of leadership in digital trans formation, which requires different competencies depending on the transformation drivers and goals. Our pro posed competency portfolio framework ser

FILE: Dissonance, Reflection and Reframing Unpacking the.pdf
TEXT: 2022 The Author. Journal of Management Studies published by Society for the Advancement of Management Studies and John Wiley & Sons Ltd. Dissonance, Reflection and Reframing: Unpacking the Black Box of Motivation Internalization Rebecca Hewett Erasmus University ABSTRACT Self-determination theory (SDT) suggests that motivation internalization is a proac- tive process in which people take into themselves the reason for engaging in a task. This has important managerial implications because internalized motivation is beneficial for individual and group performance and wellbeing. Yet we know little about how individuals internalize their own motivation nor why individuals internalize their motivation for some tasks and not others. Through interviews with 40 employees in two charities I found that motivation internalization occurred through a process of reflection and cognitive reframing across three process narratives: developmental, opportunity-enhancing, and prosocial internalization. Motivation internalization was triggered by cognitive dissonance arising from conflicting action tendencies and energized by the need to resolve motivational inconsistency or guilt. The source of this dissonance drives different process narratives, which are also associated with different behavioural and attitudinal outcomes. This research provides a deeper understanding of the proactive nature of motivation internalization and offers opportunities to integrate different theoretical perspectives on work motivation, which have traditionally been seen as conflicting. Keywords: cognitive dissonance, internalization, self-determination theory, work motivation INTRODUCTION Motivation is fundamental to our understanding of the management of people at work. Theories of work motivation help explain 

FILE: Dynamic Leadership Tools Supporting Psychological Needs Satisfaction in Public Organizations Experimental Evidence..pdf
TEXT: https://doi.org/10.1177/00910260241247954 Public Personnel Management 2024, Vol. 53(4) 572600 The Author(s) 2024 Article reuse guidelines: sagepub.com/journals-permissions DOI: 10.1177/00910260241247954 journals.sagepub.com/home/ppm Article Dynamic Leadership Tools Supporting Psychological Needs Satisfaction in Public Organizations: Experimental Evidence Jrgen Skovhus Haunstrup1 Abstract Public leadership is increasingly conducted through digital information technology, and dynamic leadership tools are offered as alternatives to static tools. As a first test of dynamic leadership tools in public leadership, this study focuses on leadership tools for visionary leadership. The study examines whether the positive effect on employee needs satisfaction of dynamic leadership tools based on persuasive information technology is stronger than for static leadership tools. The study involves a field experiment on leadership training combined with leadership tools and shows that dynamic tools indeed have a stronger impact than static tools on satisfying employee needs for meaning and employee perception of prosocial impact. This research contributes to the understanding of how information technology can be harnessed to support public leadership and highlights the potential benefits of dynamic leadership tools in supporting beneficial employee outcomes. Keywords public management, employee development, field experiment, basic needs satisfaction, persuasive technology Introduction A fundamental task in public leadership is to influence employee attitudes and behav- iors in ways that increase organizational goal attainment. Communicating an organizational vision is a promising approach to support this end: Leaders vision 1Aarhus University, Denmark Corresponding Author: Jrgen Skovhus 

FILE: Employees' belief restoration in a crisis context the role of servant leadership, workplace spirituality, and proactive personality..pdf
TEXT: Employees belief restoration in a crisis context: the role of servant leadership, workplace spirituality, and proactive personality Hoang Thi Kim Quya,b, Mai Dong Tranc and Tien Minh Dinhc aUniversity of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; bFaculty of Business Administration, Vietnam Aviation Academy, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam; cSchool of International Business and Marketing, University of Economics Ho Chi Minh City, Ho Chi Minh city, Vietnam ABSTRACT There is insufficient empirical evidence to support the critical role of employees belief restoration during significant crises. The aim of this study is to derive a model of how servant leadership affects employees belief restoration during a crisis, using workplace spiri tuality and proactive personalities as mediators. For the purposes of this research, partial least squares structural equation modelling (PLS-SEM) was conducted on a sample of 315 employees of aviation service providers during the COVID-19 pandemic. The results revealed positive nexuses between servant leadership and work place spirituality as well as proactive personality. However, the direct effect of servant leadership on employees belief restoration was not supported. The findings further demonstrated positive relationships between workplace spirituality and employees belief restoration, as well as between employees proactive personalities and their belief restoration. The study also found that the link between servant leadership and belief restoration is significantly and positively mediated by workplace spirituality and employee proactivity. ARTICLE HISTORY Received 1 August 2022 Accepted 15 November 2023 KEYWORDS Servant leadership; workplace spirituality; proactive personality; employees belief restoration; crisis; Vietnam 1. I

FILE: Engaging hearts and minds in hospitality the interplay between authentic leadership, affective commitment, and the Et-Moone cultural .pdf
TEXT: RESEARCH ARTICLE Engaging hearts and minds in hospitality: the interplay between authentic leadership, affective commitment, and the Et-Moone cultural bond Omar Mohammed Ali Ababneha, Abdulkareem Salameh Awwada, Ibrahim Alnawasa and Mahmoud Karasnehb aDepartment of Management and Marketing, College of Business and Economics, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar; bDepartment of Finance and Economics, College of Business and Economics, Qatar University, Doha, Qatar ABSTRACT The fast-based and diverse work environments at hotels and tourism settings comprise specific dynamics that drive employees attitudes and behaviours at the workplace. However, scant attention has been dedicated towards investigating the stance of employee engagement via the lens of employees domestic cultural and social norms. Therefore, guided by social exchange theory, we embrace an employee- centred approach integrating various lines of inquiries (individual, institutional, and cultural) in one nomological network. Towards that end, a purposeful sampling technique was used to gather data from 681 employees working for 45 hotels in Jordan. Conducting multiple mediation analyses, the results revealed that indirect-only mediation regulates the associations between authentic leadership, affective commitment, and Et-Moone. Further, the findings reported a complementary mediation between the affective commitment-Et- Moone-employee engagement associations, indicating direct and indirect (via Et-Moone) influence of affective commitment on employee engagement. The findings of the current study provide a novel contingency view advancing the state of knowledge on employee engagement and relationship development and guiding firms on how to foster positive attitudes and behaviours in hospitality and tourism- relevant c

FILE: How Can Servant Leaders Foster Public Employees.pdf
TEXT: Research Article How Can Servant Leaders Foster Public Employees Service-Oriented Behaviors? 269 Xavier Parent-Rocheleau is an assistant professor of human resources management at HEC Montreal. His research interests include leadership, employees attitudes and behaviors, and the leaderfollower dyadic relationship. His research also examines issues related to artificial intelligence and disruptive technologies in HRM, workplace surveillance, and algorithmic management of the workforce. Email: xavier.parent-rocheleau@hec.ca Abstract: Servant leadership, a leadership style that focuses on leading by serving, is well suited to supporting frontline employees service-oriented behaviors in the public sector. However, we still know little about how servant leaders shape these behaviors in this specific context. Drawing on social learning theory, relational identity, and service linkage research, this article addresses this gap and tests a model in which servant leadership is related to service-oriented behaviors through customer orientation at the individual level and through service climate at the group level. The research hypotheses were tested, using a multilevel model, on a sample of 922 employees, 86 supervisors, and 9,547 citizens nested in 86 Canadian libraries. Results show that servant leaders are associated with high service-oriented behaviors through the ability to strengthen individual customer orientation and service climate. Overall, this article highlights that developing servant leaders may help public organizations reach their goal of serving citizens better. Evidence for Practice Public managers can spur service behaviors among their frontline public employees by adopting servant leader behaviors. Servant leaders were found to positively influence service perf

FILE: How does leadership AI awareness shape employee voice behavior A study based on the framework of hindrance and challenge stressors..pdf
TEXT: How does leadership AI awareness shape employee voice behavior? A study based on the framework of hindrance and challenge stressors Yue Zhou1 and Bei Lyu2,3 Abstract Background: The rapid advancement of Articial Intelligence (AI) is driving transformative changes across various sec- tors, reshaping organizational management models and altering work dynamics for employees. Objective: This study employs the framework of hindrance and challenge stressors to examine the impact of leadership AI awareness on employees voice behavior (VB). Methods: We analyzed survey data from 487 employees in knowledge-intensive industries across China. Results: Leadership AI awareness, under hindering stressors, positively correlates with employees job insecurity (JI), which inversely affects their VB; JI acts as a mediator. Conversely, under challenging stressors, leadership AI awareness enhances employees intrinsic motivation, which positively correlates with VB. Intrinsic motivation also mediates this rela- tionship. Additionally, AI self-efcacy moderates the inuence of leadership AI awareness on employees VB. Conclusions: This study elucidates a dual-path mechanism through which leadership AI awareness affects employees VB and delineates the boundary conditions for this inuence. The ndings offer managerial insights for stimulating employees VB amidst AI integration in the workplace. Keywords leadership AI awareness, voice behavior, job insecurity, intrinsic motivation, AI self-efcacy, workplace Received: 14 January 2025; accepted: 17 April 2025 Introduction Articial Intelligence (AI) technology, a pivotal driver of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, signicantly transforms various industries,1 including healthcare, education, manufacturing, and services.2 Examples such as AI diagnostics, A

FILE: Impact of leadership styles on employees' performance with moderating role of positive psychological capital..pdf
TEXT: Impact of leadership styles on employees performance with moderating role of positive psychological capital Sajjad Ahmad Baiga*, Saher Iqbala, Muhammad Abrarb, Irfan Ahmad Baigc, Fiza Amjada, Muhammad Zia-ur-Rehmana and Muhammad Usman Awand aDepartment of Management Science, National Textile University Faisalabad, Faisalabad, Pakistan; bLayallpur Business School, Government College University, Faisalabad, Pakistan; cDepartment of Social Sciences, Nawaz Sharif Agriculture University Faisalabad, Faisalabad, Pakistan; dInstitute of Quality & Technology Management New Campus, University of the Punjab Lahore, Lahore, Pakistan The study aimed to investigate the most effective leadership style that enhances the employees performance at the workplace and also evaluate the impact of leadership styles (Laissez-faire leadership, Transformational leadership, Transactional leadership,) on employees performance in the textile sector of Pakistan. The study explored the moderating role of Positive psychological capital to examine the relationship between leadership styles and employee performance. A quantitative research technique was used, and Data were collected from the lower to middle-level manager of the textile sector. The ndings of this study showed that laissez-faire leadership has a signicant but negative impact on employees performance; however the moderating effect of psychological capital has made this relationship negatively signicant. Transformational leadership has a signicant impact on employee performance. Moreover, transactional leadership has an insignicant effect on employee performance by adding psychological capital as a moderator; this relationship has become positively signicant. The textile organisations of Pakistan have been facing many challenges, including l

FILE: It Goes without Saying_The effects of Intrinsic Motivational Orientation, Leadership Emphasis of Intrinsic Goals, and Audit .pdf
TEXT: It Goes without Saying: The Effects of Intrinsic Motivational Orientation, Leadership Emphasis of Intrinsic Goals, and Audit Issue Ambiguity on Speaking Up* KATHRYN KADOUS, Goizueta Business School, Emory University CHAD A. PROELL, TCU JAY RICH, Illinois State University YUEPIN (DANIEL) ZHOU, University of Illinois Urbana Champaign ABSTRACT Regulation requires auditors to raise signicant audit issues and concerns to the attention of audit engagement leadership and requires leadership to encourage such communication. This research demonstrates, using an experiment and a survey, that audit team members willingness to speak up about such issues is associated with their intrinsic motivational orientation. Based on this result, we test whether audit leadership can leverage this relationship to increase speaking up, particularly when audit issues are more ambiguous, by emphasizing intrinsic goals. Results across three addi- tional experiments indicate that auditors whose leaders emphasize intrinsic goals, whether directly or through tone at the top and rm culture, are more likely to speak up than are other auditors. We also nd that auditors are more likely to speak up when an audit issue is less versus more ambigu- ous. We conclude that leadership can fulll their obligation to encourage upward communication by emphasizing intrinsic versus extrinsic goals, regardless of the level of ambiguity surrounding the audit issue. Les rpercussions de lorientation des motivations intrinsques, de linsistance des responsables sur les buts intrinsques et de lambigut des problmes daudit sur le choix de signaler ces problmes RSUM La rglementation exige des auditeurs quils portent les proccupations et les problmes soulevs par laudit lattention des responsables de la mission daudit et que ces r

FILE: Leaders under pressure  time pressure and state core self-evaluations as antecedents of transformational leadership behavi.pdf
TEXT: European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology ISSN: 1359-432X (Print) 1464-0643 (Online) Journal homepage: www.tandfonline.com/journals/pewo20 Leaders under pressure: time pressure and state core self-evaluations as antecedents of transformational leadership behaviour Edina Dci, Joeri Hofmans, Sanne Nijs & Timothy A. Judge To cite this article: Edina Dci, Joeri Hofmans, Sanne Nijs & Timothy A. Judge (2020) Leaders under pressure: time pressure and state core self-evaluations as antecedents of transformational leadership behaviour, European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 29:4, 515-524, DOI: 10.1080/1359432X.2020.1714717 To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/1359432X.2020.1714717 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. Published online: 22 Jan 2020. Submit your article to this journal Article views: 10261 View related articles View Crossmark data Citing articles: 6 View citing articles Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=pewo20 Leaders under pressure: time pressure and state core self-evaluations as antecedents of transformational leadership behaviour Edina Dci a, Joeri Hofmansb, Sanne Nijs a and Timothy A. Judgec aSchool of Business and Economics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; bFaculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, Work and Organizational Psychology, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussel, Belgium; cFisher College of Business, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA ABSTRACT This study examines situational antecedents of transformational leadership by (a) studying the eect of time pressure on the emergence of transformational leadership behaviours, and (b) examin

FILE: Leadership behaviour and leader self-reported well-being A review, integration and meta-analytic examination.pdf
TEXT: REVIEW ARTICLE Leadership behaviour and leader self-reported well-being: A review, integration and meta-analytic examination Antonia J. Kaluzaa, Diana Boerb, Claudia Buengelerc and Rolf van Dicka aInstitute of Psychology, Goethe University Frankfurt, Frankfurt, Germany; bInstitute of Psychology, University of Koblenz-Landau, Koblenz, Germany; cInstitute of Business, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany ABSTRACT While the link between leadership and follower well-being is well established, less is known about the relation between leaders leadership behaviour and their own well-being. Particularly, a systematic integration of existing studies is missing. Based on an integrated framework summarising major theories on the leader well-beingleadership link, we quantitatively synthesised ndings on the relations between dierent leadership behaviours and leader well-being indicators. The meta-analytical results (95 eect sizes; N = 12,617) conrmed signicant relationships of constructive and destructive leadership with leader well-being in the expected directions. Relative weight analyses on the constructive leadership behaviours showed that change-oriented and relational-oriented leadership (e.g. transformational, participative) accounted for more variance in leader well-being than task-oriented leadership (e.g. transactional). Regarding destructive leadership, active destructive leadership (e.g. abusive supervision) showed stronger negative associations with leader well-being than passive leadership (e.g. laissez-faire). Based on our integrated framework, we proposed and found support for divergent patterns of associations for dierent forms of well-being (positive vs. negative, short-term vs. long-term, job-related vs. general). Our study demonstrates a considerable linkage between le

FILE: leading global teams.pdf
TEXT: Leading global teams Lena Zander a,*, Audra I. Mockaitis b, Christina L. Butler c a Uppsala University, Box 513, 751 20 Uppsala, Sweden b Monash University, P.O. Box 197, Cauleld East Vic 3145, Australia c Kingston University, Kingston Hill, Kingston-upon-Thames, Surrey KT2 7LB, UK 1. Introduction As organizations become more diverse and ever new forms of organizing emerge, working in global teams is fast becoming the rule rather than the exception. Multinational teams of all shapes and sizes have been called the heart of globalization (Snow, Snell, Canney Davision, & Hambrick, 1996) and are routinely used to cope with our increasingly competitive, complex and culturally diverse 21st century world (DiStefano & Maznevski, 2000; Ravlin, Thomas, & Ilsev, 2000). In the midst of technological advances of the last decade, global virtual teams, dened as nationally, geographically, and culturally diverse groups that communicate almost exclusive- ly through electronic media (Jarvenpaa & Leidner, 1999), rose to the fore of organizational innovations (Townsend, DeMarie, & Hendrickson, 1998). Team members work across temporal and spatial boundaries, most often in the absence of face-to-face interaction, to coordinate their activities toward the attainment of common goals from different locations around the globe. Global virtual teams and collocated teams came to be viewed as end poles on a continuum with most global teams ending up somewhere in between based on their degree of face-to-face interaction (Kirkman, Rosen, Tesluk, & Gibson, 2004). Yet, it seems that these new organizational forms are surfacing more quickly than scholars are able to study them; research on global and virtual team leadership, in particular, is lagging behind (Malhotra, Majchrzak, & Rosen, 2007; Zigurs, 20

FILE: Managerial leadership behaviors A longitudinal investigation of the role of job demands and resources, and implications for managers' own.pdf
TEXT: Applied Psychology. 2024;73:157184. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/apps 1Substantive-Methodological Synergy Research Laboratory, Concordia University & Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Canada 2Substantive-Methodological Synergy Research Laboratory, Concordia University, Montreal, Canada 3Universit du Qubec Trois-Rivires, Trois-Rivires, Canada Correspondence Istvn Tth-Kirly, Substantive- Methodological Synergy Research Laboratory, Department of Psychology, Concordia University, 7141 Sherbrooke W, Montreal, QC H4B 1R6, Canada. Email: tothkiralyistvan@gmail.com; istvan.toth-kiraly@statcan.gc.ca Funding information Social Science and Humanity Research Council of Canada, Grant/Award Number: 435-2018-0368; Fonds de Recherche du Qubec Socit et Culture, Grant/Award Numbers: 127091, 2019-SE1-252542; Concordia University Abstract Although ample research has documented the impli- cations, and organizational drivers, of leadership behaviors, very little research has considered these associations, and their consequences, from the perspec- tive of managers. The present four-wave longitudinal study addresses this limitation by focusing, using the Job Demands-Resources model, on the work-related drivers (job control, recognition, and workload) of transforma- tional, transactional and laissez-faire leadership behav- iors, and the associations between these behaviors and manifestations of managers' psychological well-being at work (job satisfaction, burnout, and turnover inten- tions). Analyzing data from 691 high-level managers (i.e. school principals) using novel random intercept cross-lagged panel model analyses, our results revealed that higher levels of job control and recognition, and lower levels of workload, predicted higher levels of trans- formational and transactional leadership beh

FILE: Servant leadership, workplace wellbeing and employee creativity The roles of psychological availability and experienced creative tim.pdf
TEXT: R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E Servant leadership, workplace well-being and employee creativity: The roles of psychological availability and experienced creative time pressure Wenhao Song1 | Yingying Ma1 | Xiucheng Fan2 | Xiangdong Jin3 | Xuerong Peng4 1Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai, China 2Fudan University, Shanghai, China 3Central China Normal University, Wuhan, China 4Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou, China Correspondence Xuerong Peng, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou, China. Email: pxr1122@zjgsu.edu.cn; pxr1122@163. com Funding information . This article was supported by the National Social Science funds of China (No.22BGL128). To better understand the effect of workplace well-being on employee creativity, we examine the effect of servant leadership on employee creativity. Using the social exchange and conservation of resources theories, we constructed a research model to identify how servant leadership affects employee creativity and to investigate its mechanism and boundary conditions. Using data collected from employees and their supervisors, we adapted the hierarchical regression analysis and bootstrapping approach to test our research model. The results showed that servant leadership pos- itively affected workplace well-being, which enhances employee creativity. Psycho- logical availability moderated the relationship between workplace well-being and employee creativity. We also found that the indirect effect of servant leadership on employee creativity via workplace well-being was significant when the employees had a high level of psychological availability. Moreover, the results indicated that experienced creative time pressure was negatively related to employee creativity and negatively moderated the link between workplace well-being and

FILE: Setting the stage for effective leadership_Antecedents of transformational leadership behavior.pdf
TEXT: Setting the stage for effective leadership: Antecedents of transformational leadership behavior $ William H. Bommera,*, Robert S. Rubinb, Timothy T. Baldwinc aDepartment of Management and Labor Relations, James J. Nance College of Business Administration, Cleveland State University, Cleveland, OH 44115, USA bDepartment of Management, Kellstadt Graduate School of Business, DePaul University, Chicago, IL 60604, USA cDepartment of Management, Kelley School of Business, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405, USA Abstract Although transformational leadership behavior (TLB) has been linked to a number of positive organizational outcomes, research regarding the antecedents of such behavior is limited. Guided by Ajzen and Fishbeins theory of reasoned action [Psychological Bulletin 84 (1977) 888], we investigated two potentially relevant antecedents to performing TLB: cynicism about organizational change (CAOC) and the leaders social contextspecifically peer leadership behavior. We hypothesized that CAOC would negatively predict TLB, while peer leadership behavior would positively predict TLB. Further, we expected that peer leadership behavior would have a positive moderating effect on leader CAOC. Data were gathered from 227 managers from multiple organizations and their 2247 subordinates. Findings supported the proposed hypotheses. Cynicism and peer leadership behavior explained nearly one quarter (24%) of the variance in TLB. Further, it appears that both CAOC and TLB may be malleable in organizational contexts. Implications for leadership research and practice are discussed. D 2004 Published by Elsevier Inc. Keywords: Transformational leadership; Cynicism about organizational change; Reasoned action; Social information processing 1. Introduction After more than 20 years 

FILE: Teams_as_innovative_systems_M.pdf
TEXT: RESEARCH REPORT Teams as Innovative Systems: Multilevel Motivational Antecedents of Innovation in R&D Teams Gilad Chen University of Maryland Jiing-Lih Farh Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Elizabeth M. Campbell-Bush University of Maryland Zhiming Wu Tsinghua University Xin Wu Beihang University Integrating theories of proactive motivation, team innovation climate, and motivation in teams, we developed and tested a multilevel model of motivators of innovative performance in teams. Analyses of multisource data from 428 members of 95 research and development (R&D) teams across 33 Chinese firms indicated that team-level support for innovation climate captured motivational mechanisms that mediated between transformational leadership and team innovative performance, whereas members motivational states (role-breadth self-efficacy and intrinsic motivation) mediated between proactive personality and individual innovative performance. Furthermore, individual motivational states and team support for innovation climate uniquely promoted individual innovative performance, and, in turn, individual innovative performance linked team support for innovation climate to team innovative performance. Keywords: work teams, innovation, motivation, multilevel Innovation, or the introduction and implementation of new ideas, processes, or products (West & Farr, 1990), is central to organizations capability to stay competitive. Like creativity, in- novation captures the development of new or novel ideas or procedures; however, effective innovation goes beyond creativity, in that it also requires championing and implementation of the ideas or procedures (Anderson, De Dreu & Nijstad, 2004; West & Farr, 1990).1 Across the individual and team levels, innovation emerges from creative de

FILE: The antecedents of employees' proactive.pdf
TEXT: R E S E A R C H A R T I C L E The antecedents of employees' proactive information security behaviour: The perspective of proactive motivation Feng Xu1 | Carol Hsu2 | Tawei (David) Wang3 | Paul Benjamin Lowry4 1College of Business, University of Michigan-Dearborn, Dearborn, Michigan, USA 2Business School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 3School of Accounting & MIS, DePaul University, Chicago, Illinois, USA 4Pamplin College of Business, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, Virginia, USA Correspondence Carol Hsu, Business School, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia. Email: carol.hsu@sydney.edu.au Abstract Organisational information security (ISec) protection is undergoing a turbulent shift in the workplace environment. In an environment of ever-increasing risks of insider threats and external cyberattacks, individual employees are often expected to take the initiative to solve organisational secu- rity problems. This study therefore focuses on employees' proactive information security behaviours (ISBs)behaviours that are self-initiated, change-oriented, and future-focused and the motivations that compel employees to protect organisational assets. We ground our study in Parker et al. (2010) proactive motivation theory (ProMT) and develop an integrated multilevel model to examine the respective effects of proactive motivational states, that is, can-do, reason-to, and energised-to motivations, on employees' proac- tive ISBs. We also explore the roles of individual differences and contextual factorsnamely, proactive personality and supervisory ISec supportand their influences on proactive motivational states. Data were collected from 210 employees situated in 55 departments distributed among multiple orga- nisations located in C

FILE: Under which conditions do middle managers exhibit transformational leadership behaviors  An experience sampling method study .pdf
TEXT: Under which conditions do middle managers exhibit transformational leadership behaviors? An experience sampling method study on the predictors of transformational leadership behaviors Karina Nielsen , Bryan Cleal a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t Available online 24 March 2011 Transformational leadership has been widely researched and associated with followers' performance, attitudes, health and well-being. However, less research has focused on the ante- cedents of transformational leadership behaviors. A few studies have examined the characteristics of followers and the attitudes of transformational leaders themselves. There is, however, a lack of knowledge on how the context may encourage transformational leadership behaviors. A study of 58 middle managers from two companies in Denmark; a private accountancy firm and a public elderlycare explored this. Using the Experience Sampling Method and questionnaires it was found that both situational factors and working conditions were associated with transformational leadership behaviors at work. The results suggest that research strategies using multiple levels and methods can provide additional information on the antecedents of transformational leadership behaviors in middle managers. Crown Copyright 2011 Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Keywords: Experience sampling method Transformational leadership Middle managers Multi-level analyses 1. Introduction Transformational leadership has been identied as an effective strategy to manage the changing environment faced by modern organizations (Bass, 1990, 1999; Turner, Barling, & Zacharatos, 2002). Transformational leadership has been promoted as a desirable set of behaviors bringing about challenges for followers, but at the same time it is recognized that thi

FILE: When sales leaders induce competition among sales employees_a source of motivation or exhaustion.pdf
TEXT: Research Article Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management 2024, VOL. 44, NO. 4, 355373 When sales leaders induce competition among sales employees: a source of motivation or exhaustion? Maximilian Friessa , Sascha Alavib, Johannes Habelc and Bianca Richterd aMunich School of Management, Ludwig Maximilian University (LMU), Kaulbachstrasse 45/1, Munich, 80539, Germany; bCarl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, Ammerlnder Heerstr. 114-118, Oldenburg, 26129, Germany; cC.T. Bauer College of Business, University of Houston, 4250 Martin Luther King Blvd, Houston, Texas, 77204-6021, USA; dSales Management Department, University of Bochum, Universittsstrasse 150, Bochum, 44780, Germany ABSTRACT Many sales leaders support competition among their employees. However, inducing competition among peers may exhibit beneficial, motivating as well as harmful, exhausting effects, and which of the two countervailing effects prevails remains an open question. Drawing on the job-demand resources model and 20 interviews with sales professionals, this study proposes that competition-inducing leadership (CIL) exhibits ambivalent effects on sales employees positive stimulation and emotional exhaustion, which depend on the specific combination of employees extrinsic motivational orientation and role overload. A cross-national, multilevel dataset from 503 business-to-business sales employees reporting to 131 supervisors of a multinational industrial supplier firm supports these propositions. Thus, this study contributes to sales leadership and interpersonal competition research by empirically clarifying that CIL is a double-edged sword that cannot be one-sidedly categorized as beneficial or harmful. A widespread leadership approach to increase selling perfor mance is to induce competition

FILE: Work motivations as antecedents and outcomes of leadership_ Integrating self-determination theory and the full range leadership theory. pdf.pdf
TEXT: Work motivations as antecedents and outcomes of leadership: Integrating self-determination theory and the full range leadership theory Yaniv Kanat-Maymon a, *, Maor Elimelech b, Guy Roth c a Baruch Ivcher School of Psychology, Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya, Israel b Business School, Ariel University, Israel c School of Education, Ben-Gurion University, Israel a r t i c l e i n f o Article history: Received 14 May 2019 Received in revised form 8 December 2019 Accepted 30 January 2020 Available online 30 January 2020 Keywords: Motivation Autonomous motivation Controlled motivation Self-determination theory Transformational-transactional leadership Full range leadership theory a b s t r a c t While some research has documented links between supervisors leadership style and subordinates motivation, little is known about what drives leadership behaviors in the rst place. This study aimed to contribute to the scholarly literature on motivational antecedents of leadership by drawing on the self- determination theory (SDT) of motivation and the full range leadership theory. We traced work moti- vation throughout the leadership process, starting with supervisors work motivations as potential an- tecedents of leadership styles and proceeding to how leadership styles associate with subordinates work motivations. A 2-2-1 multilevel mediational model tested on 61 supervisors and their 244 subordinates showed that supervisors autonomous work motivation was linked with subordinates ratings of su- pervisors transformational leadership which, in turn, was linked with subordinates autonomous work motivation. Furthermore, supervisors transactional leadership mediated the association between their controlled motivation and their subordinates controlled motivation, whereas supervi

FILE: Work-Related Psychosocial Risk and Protective Factors Influencing Workplace Sickness Absence A Systematic Literature Review..pdf
TEXT: Vol.:(0123456789) Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation (2026) 36:122 https://doi.org/10.1007/s10926-024-10265-0 SYSTEMATIC REVIEW WorkRelated Psychosocial Risk andProtective Factors Influencing Workplace Sickness Absence: ASystematic Literature Review SimonaMargheritti1 LaurentCorthsyBlondin2,3 SamanthaVilaMasse2 AlessiaNegrini2 Accepted: 22 December 2024 / Published online: 7 January 2025 The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2025 Abstract Purpose Employee sickness absence (SA) is a significant issue facing organizations and individuals worldwide, leading to multiple negative consequences, such as increased costs, early retirement, decreased productivity, and reduced quality of work. Therefore, within the occupational health and safety (OHS) framework, it is crucial to explore the factors that help workforces stay at work sustainably. This study investigates the role of work-related psychosocial factors (WRPFs) as predic- tors of SA and suggests proactive measures to prevent its occurrence. Methods A systematic literature review was conducted within the Job DemandsResources Model framework. Following the PRISMA Checklist, 1087 articles from PsycINFO, Medline, and Web of Science databases were screened, and 30 lon- gitudinal studies were included. Results The findings describe SA as a multifaceted phenomenon influenced by risk (e.g., poor quality leadership, bullying, and violence) and protective WRPFs (e.g., developmental opportunities and social support). These factors, spanning con- textual, content-related, and relational dimensions, collectively influence workers SA over time. Conclusions These insights provide valuable guidance for researchers and OHS stakeholders, supporting the development of re
